# Reputation-Lover
For the project, I am studying the albums "Reputation" and "Lover" by Taylor Swift. Each song on the albums will serve as my observations. There are thirty-three songs between the two albums, so I will have thirty-three unique identifiers. Each of my observations will be operationalized with the different variables I will cover in the following paragraphs.
My first variable is titled “Changes in Tempo” and is a quantitative variable. This variable will represent the amount of time the speed or mood clearly changes within a single song. By measuring this variable, I will have an idea of the general mood of the song. On top of that, I will be able to determine how often the mood changes. Tempo is essential in determining the temper of a song, so I must measure it to understand why a song is popular and why it is associated with different moods. The coding scheme of this variable will simply be one to infinity. However, I do not expect this number to exceed ten.  I will just be counting the number of times the tempo changes and I will put that number into the dataset.
	My second variable is titled “This song makes me want to…” and is a qualitative variable. Similar to “Changes in Tempo”, I chose this variable to get an idea of the song’s mood. The coding scheme includes the answers of “sing”, “dance”, “cry”, “relax”, and “other”. I believe these options summarize how I typically react when listening to a song. Also, I want to see if I feel indifferent about any of these songs. I believe that if I chose “other”, it would be a weaker and less popular song. So, I believe that operationalizing this variable will provide me with an idea of the mood of a song and why it is popular or not.
	My third variable is titled “Times Chorus is Repeated” and is a quantitative variable. I will be measuring the amount of times the chorus is repeated in a song. I will determine what the chorus is from Swift’s official lyric videos, which outwardly show the listener when the chorus starts and ends. This will make it a straight-forward task when counting how many times the chorus is repeated. I am measuring this variable because I am interested to see if I get bored of a song if the chorus is repeated more than it is in other songs. I also believe that measuring this variable will tell me how important the chorus is to a song. As of now, which is early into my project, I expect that if a chorus is repeated more often, it is more of an essential part of the song and carries more of a message compared to if it is repeated just once or twice. This variable will be measured with a binary coding scheme. I do not expect the number to be less than two or more than five.
	My fourth variable is titled “Times Title is Repeated” and is a quantitative variable. I will be measuring the number of times the exact words of the title is repeated in its respective song. I will determine this from the lyric videos for each song. I am interested to see if the times the song title is repeated has a strong relationship with how many times the chorus is repeated.
	My fifth variable is titled “High Notes” and is a quantitative variable. This variable represents the amount of high notes Swift sings in each song. I will determine if it is a high note if it stands out from the rest of the song and is significantly higher than her normal tone. I will measure this variable with a binary coding scheme, which I expect will be between zero and eight. It is important to measure “High Notes” because many listeners get excited over high notes. High notes add more emotion and drama to a song, so measuring this variable will allow me to determine the mood and intentions of each song.
	My final variable is a qualitative variable titled “Bridge Exists”. This observation will determine if each song has a bridge. This variable will help me determine the structure of the song. The coding schema will simply be “yes” (if the song has a bridge) or “no” (if the song does not have a bridge). 
	To clearly understand the data, open the project in Posit Cloud. First run the packages. Then, run the chi-squared, ANOVA, and correlation tests to determine how the variables relate to each other.
